Linux.md, before:

# Linux Tanzu Workstation Setup

The following cheatsheet supports applications and utilities helpful for developer and operations (might I say devops) team members working with Tanzu.

The apps listed collected and used form a completely fresh Ubuntu Linux jumpbox.  See notes on creating the Ubuntu Linux VM at the bottom.

## Pre-installed

Git - Installed out of the box

Docker - Installed through initial VM setup via Snap
  - If not done at setup, you can rurn `sudo snap install docker`
  - I faced an permission issue with docker and needed to follow [these steps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
  - Note: If running with HTTP_PROXY follow these [additional instructions](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/systemd/#httphttps-proxy).

```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
sudo reboot now
```

## Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Packages

https://www.vmware.com/go/get-tkg

Using my workstation and then used scp to copy them to the linux jumpbox
- tkg cli
  - Extract, copy tkg to /usr/local/bin renaming them to tkg
  - Copy carvel tools to /usr/local/bin and rename
- kubectl cli
  - Extract, add execute bit copy kubectl.exe to /usr/local/bin
- tkg extensions

From your mac workstation...

```bash
export JUMPBOX_USER=dpfeffer
export JUMPBOX_IP=192.168.7.77
# Download from https://www.vmware.com/go/get-tkg
# - kubectl
# - tkg
# - tkg-extensions
# - velero
scp ~/Downloads/tkg-extensions-manifests-v1.2.0-vmware.1.tar.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
```

From linux jumpbox...

```bash
gunzip kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1.gz
chmod +x kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1 && sudo mv kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kubectl

gunzip tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar.gz
tar -xvf tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar
sudo mv tkg/tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/tkg
sudo mv tkg/imgpkg-linux-amd64-v0.2.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/imgpkg
sudo mv tkg/kapp-linux-amd64-v0.33.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kapp
sudo mv tkg/kbld-linux-amd64-v0.24.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kbld
sudo mv tkg/ytt-linux-amd64-v0.30.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/ytt
rm -rf tkg/

gunzip velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1.gz
chmod +x velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1
sudo mv velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/velero

```

Create a directory in your home for various git projects.  This is one of them.
- Create ~/workspace
- git clone https://github.com/doddatpivotal/tanzu-workstation-setup.git

## Additional Apps & Utilities

```bash
# Install pivnet - https://github.com/pivotal-cf/pivnet-cli
curl -LO https://github.com/pivotal-cf/pivnet-cli/releases/download/v2.0.2/pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2
chmod +x ./pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2
sudo mv pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2 /usr/local/bin/pivnet
# Get your Pivnet API Token at the bottom of the [Pivnet Profile Page](https://network.pivotal.io/users/dashboard/edit-profile).  
pivnet login --api-token $PIVNET_API_TOKEN

# Install kp - https://docs.pivotal.io/build-service
pivnet download-product-files \
  --product-slug='build-service' \
  --release-version='1.0.4' \
  --product-file-id=817470
chmod +x kp-linux-0.1.4
sudo mv kp-linux-0.1.4 /usr/local/bin/kp

# Install jq - https://stedolan.github.io/jq/
sudo apt-get install jq

# Install k9s - https://github.com/derailed/k9s
sudo snap install k9s

# Install yq - per https://github.com/mikefarah/yq
sudo wget https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/download/3.4.1/yq_linux_amd64 -O /usr/bin/yq 
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/yq

# Install helm
curl -LO https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
gunzip helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar
sudo mv linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/helm
rm helm*
rm -rf linux-amd64/

# Install kind
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/v0.10.0/kind-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./kind
sudo mv ./kind /usr/local/bin/kind

# Install kubectx/kubens
sudo git clone https://github.com/ahmetb/kubectx /opt/kubectx
sudo ln -s /opt/kubectx/kubectx /usr/local/bin/kubectx
sudo ln -s /opt/kubectx/kubens /usr/local/bin/kubens

# Install tmc
curl -LO https://tmc-cli.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/tmc/0.2.0-ba47223d/linux/x64/tmc
chmod +x ./tmc
sudo mv tmc /usr/local/bin/tmc

# Install pack
curl -LO https://github.com/buildpacks/pack/releases/download/v0.15.1/pack-v0.15.1-linux.tgz
gunzip pack-v0.15.1-linux.tgz
tar -xvf pack-v0.15.1-linux.tar
chmod +x pack
sudo mv pack /usr/local/bin/
rm pack*

# Install fly
curl -LO https://github.com/concourse/concourse/releases/download/v6.7.4/fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tgz
gunzip fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tgz
tar -xvf fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tar
chmod +x fly
sudo mv fly /usr/local/bin/
rm fly*

# Install HTTPie
sudo apt install httpie

# Install JDK
sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk
```

## Create Ubuntu Linux Virtual Machine (Optional)

- Download Server install image from https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/
- Upload iso to data store
- Create new VM
  - name it linux-jumpbox, pace it in Datacenter
  - put it on Cluster1
  - Guest OS: choose Linux - Ubuntu Linux x64
  - Customize Hardware:
    - cpu 2, ram 8GB, disk 30GB
    - VM Network
    - Add a second CD Drive and choose ISO
- Power on jumpbox
- Choose web console while boot up
  - Accept all defaults
  - Your name, linux-jumpbox, your username, your password
  - Install SSH server, but don't import keys
  - SNAPS: Docker
- Now Get the IP address and ssh into it.  I did `ssh dpfeffer@192.168.7.77`

Commit message:

Adds account and vm size reference

Linux.md, after:

# Linux Tanzu Workstation Setup

The following cheatsheet supports applications and utilities helpful for developer and operations (might I say devops) team members working with Tanzu.

The apps listed collected and used form a completely fresh Ubuntu Linux jumpbox.  See notes on creating the Ubuntu Linux VM at the bottom.

Recommended size is cpu 2, ram 6GB, disk 30GB​.

## VMware Tanzu Accounts

- `my.vmware.com` - This is for downloading TKG. If you don't already have an account, register [here](https://my.vmware.com/web/vmware/registration).
- `Tanzu Net` - This is for downloading Tanzu Build Service. If you don't already have an account, register [here](https://account.run.pivotal.io/z/uaa/sign-up).

## Pre-installed

Git - Installed out of the box

Docker - Installed through initial VM setup via Snap
  - If not done at setup, you can rurn `sudo snap install docker`
  - I faced an permission issue with docker and needed to follow [these steps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
  - Note: If running with HTTP_PROXY follow these [additional instructions](https://docs.docker.com/config/daemon/systemd/#httphttps-proxy).

```bash
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker
sudo reboot now
```

## Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Packages

https://www.vmware.com/go/get-tkg

Using my workstation and then used scp to copy them to the linux jumpbox
- tkg cli
  - Extract, copy tkg to /usr/local/bin renaming them to tkg
  - Copy carvel tools to /usr/local/bin and rename
- kubectl cli
  - Extract, add execute bit copy kubectl.exe to /usr/local/bin
- tkg extensions

From your mac workstation...

```bash
export JUMPBOX_USER=dpfeffer
export JUMPBOX_IP=192.168.7.77
# Download from https://www.vmware.com/go/get-tkg
# - kubectl
# - tkg
# - tkg-extensions
# - velero
scp ~/Downloads/tkg-extensions-manifests-v1.2.0-vmware.1.tar.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
scp ~/Downloads/velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1.gz $JUMPBOX_USER@$JUMPBOX_IP:
```

From linux jumpbox...

```bash
gunzip kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1.gz
chmod +x kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1 && sudo mv kubectl-linux-v1.19.3-vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kubectl

gunzip tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar.gz
tar -xvf tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1-vmware.1.tar
sudo mv tkg/tkg-linux-amd64-v1.2.1+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/tkg
sudo mv tkg/imgpkg-linux-amd64-v0.2.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/imgpkg
sudo mv tkg/kapp-linux-amd64-v0.33.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kapp
sudo mv tkg/kbld-linux-amd64-v0.24.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/kbld
sudo mv tkg/ytt-linux-amd64-v0.30.0+vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/ytt
rm -rf tkg/

gunzip velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1.gz
chmod +x velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1
sudo mv velero-linux-v1.4.3_vmware.1 /usr/local/bin/velero

```

Create a directory in your home for various git projects.  This is one of them.
- Create ~/workspace
- git clone https://github.com/doddatpivotal/tanzu-workstation-setup.git

## Additional Apps & Utilities

```bash
# Install pivnet - https://github.com/pivotal-cf/pivnet-cli
curl -LO https://github.com/pivotal-cf/pivnet-cli/releases/download/v2.0.2/pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2
chmod +x ./pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2
sudo mv pivnet-linux-amd64-2.0.2 /usr/local/bin/pivnet
# Get your Pivnet API Token at the bottom of the [Pivnet Profile Page](https://network.pivotal.io/users/dashboard/edit-profile).  
pivnet login --api-token $PIVNET_API_TOKEN

# Install kp - https://docs.pivotal.io/build-service
pivnet download-product-files \
  --product-slug='build-service' \
  --release-version='1.0.4' \
  --product-file-id=817470
chmod +x kp-linux-0.1.4
sudo mv kp-linux-0.1.4 /usr/local/bin/kp

# Install jq - https://stedolan.github.io/jq/
sudo apt-get install jq

# Install k9s - https://github.com/derailed/k9s
sudo snap install k9s

# Install yq - per https://github.com/mikefarah/yq
sudo wget https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/download/3.4.1/yq_linux_amd64 -O /usr/bin/yq 
sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/yq

# Install helm
curl -LO https://get.helm.sh/helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
gunzip helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar.gz
tar -xvf helm-v3.5.1-linux-amd64.tar
sudo mv linux-amd64/helm /usr/local/bin/helm
rm helm*
rm -rf linux-amd64/

# Install kind
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/v0.10.0/kind-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./kind
sudo mv ./kind /usr/local/bin/kind

# Install kubectx/kubens
sudo git clone https://github.com/ahmetb/kubectx /opt/kubectx
sudo ln -s /opt/kubectx/kubectx /usr/local/bin/kubectx
sudo ln -s /opt/kubectx/kubens /usr/local/bin/kubens

# Install tmc
curl -LO https://tmc-cli.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/tmc/0.2.0-ba47223d/linux/x64/tmc
chmod +x ./tmc
sudo mv tmc /usr/local/bin/tmc

# Install pack
curl -LO https://github.com/buildpacks/pack/releases/download/v0.15.1/pack-v0.15.1-linux.tgz
gunzip pack-v0.15.1-linux.tgz
tar -xvf pack-v0.15.1-linux.tar
chmod +x pack
sudo mv pack /usr/local/bin/
rm pack*

# Install fly
curl -LO https://github.com/concourse/concourse/releases/download/v6.7.4/fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tgz
gunzip fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tgz
tar -xvf fly-6.7.4-linux-amd64.tar
chmod +x fly
sudo mv fly /usr/local/bin/
rm fly*

# Install HTTPie
sudo apt install httpie

# Install JDK
sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk
```

## Create Ubuntu Linux Virtual Machine (Optional)

- Download Server install image from https://releases.ubuntu.com/20.04/
- Upload iso to data store
- Create new VM
  - name it linux-jumpbox, pace it in Datacenter
  - put it on Cluster1
  - Guest OS: choose Linux - Ubuntu Linux x64
  - Customize Hardware:
    - cpu 2, ram 6GB, disk 30GB
    - VM Network
    - Add a second CD Drive and choose ISO
- Power on jumpbox
- Choose web console while boot up
  - Accept all defaults
  - Your name, linux-jumpbox, your username, your password
  - Install SSH server, but don't import keys
  - SNAPS: Docker
- Now Get the IP address and ssh into it.  I did `ssh dpfeffer@192.168.7.77`
